---
layout: post
title:  "An alternate solution to the "The 3 Light Switches" problem"
---

Today, I accidentally came up with an alternative, novel solution to the classic interview question, "The 3 Light Switches".

- [Proof of discovery and originality](https://gist.github.com/carlos8f/9fd4053e4af2d12c2d070c2c42c2e6d4)
- [Post on /r/puzzles](https://www.reddit.com/r/puzzles/comments/51zoi8/my_solution_to_the_3_lightbulb_switches_problem_%E8%B7%AF/)

### Rules

> Suppose that you are standing in a hallway next to 3 light switches, which are all off. There is another room down the hallway, where there are 3 incandescent light bulbs – each light bulb is operated by one of the switches in the hallway. Because the light bulbs are in another room, you can not see them since you are standing in the hallway.

> How would you figure out which switch operates which light bulb, if you can only go the room with the light bulbs one time, and only one time?

### The "Official" Solution

- turn on switch A.
- turn on switch B briefly, and turn it off.
- go in the room
- notice the lit bulb, that's switch A.
- notice the "warm" bulb, with your hand. that's switch B.
- the final bulb is switch C.

### My Alternative Solution

- label the switches A, B and C
- turn switch A on
- open door
- go into room
- notice the lit bulb. that's switch A. unscrew it and carry it with you, labeling it A.
- the room goes dark.
- unscrew one of the other bulbs, label it X, and carry it with you.
- do NOT touch the door on the way out, leaving it open
- exit the room.
- turn on switch B. does light appear in the room?
- if yes, the bulb in the room is switch B.
- if no, the bulb in the room is switch C.
- the "X" bulb is the remaining switch, either B or C depending on the light or darkness coming from the room.
